well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we are going to talk about
trust funds
and wealth power
privilege exclusionary traits
unseen forces all kinds of stuff
to start off with i want you to picture
you live in a world
where some people are born with trust
funds
born with money when they're born they
have a million dollars
and let's say that this set of people
they have a lot of influence over how
laws are written
and sometimes they tailor the law those
laws to benefit themselves
that they get preferential treatment
when it comes to financial institutions
that they get preferential treatment by
law enforcement and the criminal justice
system that they have better access to
education and healthcare okay so picture
you live in the united states
okay i would suggest
that if you were part of that group of
people
you you have a privilege in fact
we used to call this class of people
people who were born
to wealth and privilege it's not a new
concept
guys but that's an extreme example
let's take it a step back let's say
your your family doesn't have enough to
give you a trust fund with a million
dollars in it
but they got enough to pay for you to go
to college
without an academic or athletic
scholarship
that's a privilege your grades can be so
so you can just buy your way in
it's a privilege something you're born
with
let's say you just have a rich uncle
it means you have access to that
generational wealth you want to start a
business maybe he gives you a loan
it's a privilege
these are all unseen forces that alter
a person's life you don't really notice
them up front really
now these are ones that you're born with
what about ones that you're not born
with
like let's say you joined the military
you're a veteran most people in the
united states
with the exception of those in public
office they respect veterans
right you have better access to certain
financial instruments like home loans
it's a privilege you can call it an
earned privilege if you want to
but it's it's a privilege
let's say you took advantage of your
parents having that cash
and you went to college you got that
degree that degree
confers a certain amount of privilege
again
if you want to call it an earned
privilege you can
privilege exists okay we have
established this
what about exclusionary traits the other
side of the coin there
like let's say you were born poor
born in a trailer is that something you
necessarily are going to advertise to
the world
probably not because there's stereotype
goes along with it
you know let's just say you were born in
mississippi or west virginia
what's the stereotype you're ignorant i
mean you could kind of apply this to the
whole south you know for the rest of the
country we do have like schools and
education and universities and stuff
like that down here
but there's that image that stereotype
that exclusionary thing no
hillbilly no don't hire that guy right
okay so
there are privileges and exclusionary
traits that you can be born with
okay what about exclusionary traits that
you pick up along the way
got a friend he uh he stopped to check
out that semi-interesting thing on the
side of the road
boom he's got a prosthetic now
it's hot down here when he's wearing
shorts
people treat him differently
oh let me let me get that for you this
is an able-bodied
guy and he has one of those new
prosthetics looks like a terminator leg
guy can outrun me
he didn't like the way he was treated so
he started wearing pants
all the time maybe 110 degrees he's
wearing pants
no another guy has an accent
he was working in a field where critical
thinking
was a big part of it didn't think people
would take him seriously so he hit it
you know if you sound like a character
from justified most times people don't
assume
you're boyd crowder they assume you're
one of the other characters that's not
so bright because you talk slow
therefore you think slow
exclusionary trait no another guy took a
round to the face
in here out here nasty scar
people thought he was mean people were
intimidated by him
guy's a teddy bear but the stereotype
he grew out a beard like mine hide it
what if it's an exclusionary trait
that's very visible
but you can't hide it
what if it's plain as day
on your face your skin tone
in the united states i don't even think
i need to say
which skin tone would be a privilege
and which skin tones might be considered
an exclusionary trait
it's a thing it exists
okay now
there's also the idea that if you don't
acknowledge
this kind of privilege well then you're
racist automatically
that's silly that's not true it's not
true because they're skipping a step
people who say that are skipping a step
if you are aware of
the statistics
broken down by racial demographic in
this country when it comes to poverty
crime health care education all this
stuff
and you don't acknowledge that there's
some unseen
privilege
the only other conclusion you can come
to is that black people are somehow less
capable
and yeah that's racist so there's a step
missing there
ignorance alone doesn't make somebody
racist
most times
if you're aware of those stats
and you don't acknowledge
that your skin tone might be a privilege
you need to do some soul searching
because the reality is
most laws are made by people who look
like me and sometimes
they tailor those laws to benefit people
who look like me
people who look like me are generally
treated better by law enforcement the
criminal justice system
they have better access to financial
institutions
better health care access better access
to education
just like a trust fund it's not a trust
fund and having a privilege
isn't an attack on you being born
a certain way that doesn't mean you're a
bad person in fact
that's literally the whole point of
acknowledging these
it doesn't it's not a personal attack
it's just a statement of fact
because of the station you were born
into you have these privileges
you don't have any control over some of
this
however if you are born into a position
of privilege
and you don't use your voice to speak
out
against the inequities against the
inequalities
yeah that kind of makes you a bad person
you know it exists you know it exists
people just don't like the terminology
that goes along with it
they don't want to compare themselves to
the trust fund kids
those who think they hit a home run but
they were born on third base
having a privilege doesn't mean your
life isn't hard
it just means it's not harder
because of this your life isn't harder
because you're white it can be harder
for a whole bunch of different reasons
to be born poor in west virginia with a
thick accent
and a prosthetic that's going to make
your life harder
but even with all that you probably
still have
a skin tone privilege
with everything going on in the country
with us finally starting to address
some of our history i would suggest that
right now
is a really bad time to stop talking
about this
because if we don't talk about it we
can't fix it and it needs to be fixed
i do find it funny that the one person
who is screaming about
privilege and how it's not a thing and
how it's un-american
is one of the most privileged people in
the country
it's almost like he doesn't want to
accept that he is
in his station due to luck
not through any work of his own
i would also point out that when you
call the concept
of white privilege unamerican
it makes it pretty clear
who you think americans are
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day